for more than a week now the Israeli
military has bombed Gaza City's Shuan
neighborhood there are also reports of
heavy fighting between Israeli forces
and the kasan brigades a Palestinian
journalist in Gaza has documented the
destruction in
Shaya we are here just a few meters away
from aaya neighborhood as you can see
relentless bombardment on the
neighborhood the neighborhood is
subjected to extensive air strikes from
this are early
morning HRA Ground Forces enter the
neighborhood from multiple directions
forcing civilians to dis place and the
situation where man's dire families
still
fra neighborhood with unknown Destiny
this is this
[Music]
is as close as we can get from a sha
neighborhood
[Music]
let's go now live to our correspondent
Han Mahmud who's in darl balah central
Gaza for honey what's the latest you're
hearing about uh the Israeli military
operation in
sua yes F well within the past half an
hour we received a report talking about
Israeli military conducting what seemed
to be a tactical withdrawal from limited
parts of Shaya neighborhood particularly
to the northern part of this densely
populated neighborhood and the southern
uh western part of it and repositioning
itself in much more open uh areas but
the eastern part NE is still under full
military control and this tactical
withdrawal is coupled with heavy
presence ofad capters and uh
surveillance drones that covering the
entire neighborhood making it very
difficult for people to move around or
even to try to evacuate from the
residential homes that they've been
Sheltering in or they've been trapped
inside unable uh to leave so far this
almost a week now seventh day in a row
and ongoing trail of Devastation and
destruction of this particular
residential uh neighborhood at the
eastern part of of Gaza City where more
people reported killed with more as well
in the streets uh paramedic civil
defense cre are able to get inside and
remove these bodies from the streets of
sha neighborhood yeah and and elsewhere
um Israeli attacks continue of course
what's happening in can Yunis in the
South with the the latest Israeli
evacuation order there have most people
now left that Eastern area of
canonist yeah well the Israeli military
created very intimidating and difficult
conditions for the resident of eastern
part of kanuni City these people just
were making their way back to the
remaining parts of their residential
homes and areas and neighborhoods in the
eastern part of the city after a a a
months of Destruction and Devastation
and and Relentless air strikes and as
soon as they are trying to resettle
their the Israeli military started to
carry out this uh air attacks on the
eastern part of the city claiming that
they're they're dismantling
infrastructure and Facilities for
Palestinian uh resistance and
Palestinian fighting groups in the
eastern part of the city and doing so
pushing hundreds and hundreds of
families already displ it traumatized
more than one time in terms of
displacement into the center and the
western part of the city the vast
majority of people end up in the streets
of hanun now just given their terrible
experience in the past in terms of
evacuation in terms of the uh the safe
zon that is really military pushed
harder uh to uh uh make people believe
that these PE these areas are safe for
them to evacuate to but we have a
documented cases of people as soon as
they got to these safe zones they were
bombed and killed inside uh these areas
particularly and notorious among them is
Al maasi evacuation where people were
targeted and killed inside their tents
of this part there's still more people
moving to the center of the city some
other others decided to stay where they
at because there's simply no saf place
to go to thank you honey for the update
that's Al jaz's honey Mahmud live there
in darl balah well let's now speak to
Mansour Schuman about this he's a Gaza
resident who lived through uh this war
and the recent Israeli operations in
Rafa and Khan units before moving to qat
mano good to have you with us again on
aler let's start with what's happening
in the south in kanun it's an area you
know very well Israel has issued another
evacuation order for Khan units this is
an area that they' already uh bombed
they had been an operation there they
left on April 7th but now they're back
first of all when they issue the
evacuation order to people what happens
how much time do people have to leave
before the actual operation
begins few hours um what happened in
this case is that um as for the people I
know on the ground first of all
pamphlets were thrown on them from the
sky and then there would be rumors
online through different WhatsApp groups
that you know the Israeli forces are
going to enter the eastern part of
so you need to evacuate and finally they
would see an official um order come to
them through speaker phones and through
Facebook pages and internet pages of the
different areas that they need to
evacuate within the next hour or so so
that the israelies can come and cause
whatever they want to do this is a
never-ending scenario uh it's happening
not only in kanun but in other cities
and locations across Gaza Strip and
unfortunately no one is able to put a
stop to this so
the people on the ground are suffering
hunus is suffering and this we need to
put an end to this as soon as possible
as Han correspondent was telling us
there some people even with the
evacuation orders choose to stay because
they have nowhere to go nowhere safe at
least they can go to yes not only know
we're safe but there is like you said
nowhere to go to unfortunately and U
even if they are safe the areas that
they're going to relocate to has no food
or water or shelter for them and their K
their children and their families so a
lot of people are saying you know what
if we're going to die let's die on our
homes let's die where we where we need
to be
unfortunately
um it's very it's very sad that we're
watching this happening time and time
again to different areas and nothing to
be done about it yeah what does that
suggest the fact that this is happening
time and time again in different areas
areas which is Israel had said they
cleared uh in the past like sha in in
Gaza City that been in there like car
Unis there was an operation in there in
April they said they' cleared it and
then they go back what does that suggest
to you about the way they're conducting
the war and the type of resistance
they're facing from the the Palestinian
factions I think it's a genocidal way of
conducting the War uh it's a way of
trying to Exterminating the people
trying to uproot them from wherever they
have been living for centuries trying to
ensure that civil unrest continues and
um it's a kind of psychological warfare
against the ordinary civilian on the
ground in order for them not to feel
safe and in order for them to completely
submit to any demands made by the IDF
moving forward in any of the
negotiations that are happening they're
facing stiff resistance it seems from
the Palestinian factions whether in
kanun or Shaya not only stiff but
escalating and uh I think that's one of
the things that is bothering the IDF is
that despite 9 months of get of putting
these people through everything gruesome
the escalating violence continues from
both sides and I I don't
understand why don't the same people in
the Israeli uh side see this that
they're only making the Palestinian
people stronger and people who are on
the neutral side are now starting to see
that no we need to also fight fight back
right whether it be through uh peaceful
or non peaceful means manour always good
to talk to you thank you so so much for
joining us aler man Mano Schuman a
Palestinian journalist and humanitarian
on the newsour with
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from alaz